---
layout: post
title: "In the Spirit of Flexibility: Yet Another Defense of 100% Remote Work"
author: "Chris Benz"
categories: journal
tags: [documentation,sample]
image: 
---

I never imagined I would be spending the majority of the first years of my career after university working remotely. Up until the first weeks of March 2020, my daily routine of getting ready for the day and ensuring I had 25 minutes to drive to the office was conducted like clockwork. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, my only industry experience with working from home was spending the ocasional Friday working at home after lunch, or spending the entire day working from home if a majority of my team was planning to do the same. Post mid-March 2020 though, work-from-home Fridays became work-from-home weeks, months, and eventually a full year as the COVID-19 pandemic reared its ugly head. 

With pandemic conditions improving considerably since the beginning of 2021 with the roll out of vaccines, goverments, companies, and a number of other organizations have or are in the process of deciding how work from home will fit in, if at all, going forward. Companies like [Twitter](https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2020/10/01/twitter-work-from-home/) and [Facebook](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/06/09/facebook-will-let-all-employees-who-can-work-remotely-to-request-full-time-remote-work.html) have announced policies that would allow all or nearly all of their employees to work virtually forever or otherwise choose where they want to work. On a different note, companies like [Goldman Sachs](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jackkelly/2021/05/05/goldman-sachs-tells-employees-to-return-to-the-office-by-july-14-as-wall-street-pushes-back-on-the-work-from-home-trend/) are taking a different approach, requring employees to return to office, pushing back on current remote work trends.

As the pandemic continues to disrupt industries, organizations, and a whole array of other institutions, I'm not sure what the right answer is to any of these post pandemic questions, but my gut tells me fortune will favor companies offering flexibility and options to employees to choose how and where they want to work. 

In my own experience, I have found that working from home five days a weeks has without a doubt been a net gain to my productivity and overall well being. Instead of navigating the Mad Max-esque Arizona 101 Loop to get to the office in the morning, I'm able to spend that time checking in on emails, Slack queries, and any other pending items or discussions as I start my work day. Additionally, I'm fortunate to be able to work from home in an environment with few audible distractions, with only the occasional leaf blower or maintenance truck of a landscaping crew contributing to any potential disruptions, something not easily guaranteed in the busy environment of an open office layout.

I could write ad nauseam about the various other benefits I have been able to achieve from working 100% virtually. Ultimately, I realize not everyone who has had an experience with remote work during this pandemic has had one which is positive or that in any capacity can be likened to my own. I think there's abosolutely a case that can be made for in-office work, however I don't feel it should be made at the expense of the benefits that work-from-home has provided to many employees.

As companies around the world continue to formulate their return to office plans, many companies are taking an in-between approach by creating hybrid model approaches which would have employees working in an office two or three days a week, with the remaining days being spent working at home. While I feel that these policies are a good start, I think it is equally important to understand what, if any flexibility is contained within a hybrid approach. After reading a few articles on the hybrid approaches that some companies are implementing for returning to the office, I'm finding that the word 'hybrid' does not always speak to  the flexibility (or lack thereof) that many employees have been able to benefit from by working at home (or other workspace) rather than an office. 

For some companies, a hybrid approach may have underlying flexibility which permits employees to choose how many days they want to work in the office (if any) or work at home. For others, a hybrid approach consists of three compulsory days spent in office with the remaining two spent working at home. In others, a hybrid plan might look completely different from the past two options I described. Ultimately, depending on which company you ask, hybrid plans may not have the same level of flexibility that 100% virtual arrangements gave to employees during this pandemic. 

With the pandemic still ongoing and the Delta variant of COVID-19 causing [some companies](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/07/20/technology/apple-return-to-office-delay.html) to delay their return to office plans, it's difficult to say with certainty what a "new normal" will look like for employees going forward. As someone who has seen many direct benefits from working in a virtual capacity in terms of overall productivity and wellbeing, I hope that flexibility rather than rigidity will rule the day as we go foward to establish how work will be conducted in a post pandemic world. 